## 2020-11-05
|  |  |
| -------- | -------- |
| Attendees  | Nicolas de Loof, Roman Anasal, Jacob Howard, Chris Crone, Justin Cormack, Eric Hripko |
| Note Taker | Chris |

### Agenda

* Welcome newcomers!
* Profiles PR (https://github.com/compose-spec/compose-spec/pull/110)
* (Nicolas) Introduce routing (ingress and more) (https://github.com/compose-spec/compose-spec/issues/111)
* (Chris) [Versioning of spec](https://github.com/compose-spec/compose-spec/issues/104)

### Notes

* [Profiles PR](https://github.com/compose-spec/compose-spec/pull/110)
    * Thanks to Roman for adding a clearer PR for this feature!
    * Nicolas doesn't see a blocker with current implementation
    * Justin: Would profiles be a good way to handle things like changing service port or a single setting like TLS or should we keep it simple for now?
    * Nicolas: Networking has lots of local vs prod concerns that we need to handle. Substition of service is a good first stab that solves lots of problems
    * Chris: Like that this is simple to start and that we can iterate on it
    * Nicolas: Profiles approach has lots of possibility as it's defined
    * Jacob: How does disabling and enabling services handle things like volumes?
    * Nicolas: We can leave this up to tool providers
    * Jacob: How would this interact with depends_on?
        * Nicolas: Profiles are like a preprocessor; they generate a valid Compose file
* [Introduce routing (ingress and more)](https://github.com/compose-spec/compose-spec/issues/111)
    * Original issue popped up on the Compose CLI repo asking for ingress
    * Lots of possibilities here with things like service meshes
    * Good starting point might be path based routing
    * Intention is to get more eyes on this proposal
    * Chris: Path based routing would also enable things like lambdas (FaaS)
    * Nicolas: We need to be sure that we have local development solutions for this functionality. A lot of this functionality is provider specific currently.
* [Versioning of spec](https://github.com/compose-spec/compose-spec/issues/104)
    * Need a way for tool makers to pick up the spec and consume it
    * Justin: What users care about is just if a feature is supported by their tool
    * Chris: Imagined just having versioned schema
    * Jacob: We want to avoid the C++ versioning approach where there are years between feature releases
        * Might want to cut releases when tools support a given feature