## 2020-05-07

|  |  |
| -------- | -------- |
| Attendees  | Ben De St Paer-Gotch, Nicolas de Loof, Chris Crone, David Giffin, Vanessa Sochat, Eric Hripko, Alex Hicks, Erik Landerholm, Jacob Howard, Jeremy Kreutzbender, Laszlo Fogas, Till Wegmueller |
| Note Taker | Ben De St Paer-Gotch |

### Agenda

* Welcome newcomers!
* Scope of Compose - feedback to be added in Github about https://github.com/compose-spec/compose-spec/blob/master/VISION.md
* V2 support: https://github.com/compose-spec/compose-spec/issues/12
* provider-specific extensions https://github.com/compose-spec/compose-spec/issues/17 to drive spec changes
* (Chris Crone) Format of this meeting feedback: Long enough? Anything we can do better?

### Notes

* Nicolas de Loof
    * Welcome, overview of last meeting
    * First item - establish scope of Compose spec. We don't want Compose file format to become another KubeYaml 'thing' with everything inside it, increasing the complexity. We want to keep Compose simple and still covering the use cases required for production deployment
    * Ben: Wrote initial vision doc. Based off feedback from users that often the first step for Compose is as a tool for scripting run of single container. Useful as it can then be used to string containers together and run them in production.
    * Vanessa Sochat - a lot of researchers who are creating simple applications locally that may never make the jump to production
* Tim W
    *  - when developing locally and pushing it into a cluster, we have a lot of low level concepts like C-groups/types. These differ between a local computer and a high power cluster - you won't be able to make that work smoothly but it is a good idea to have it in at least to define it in 2 different places
* Nicolas D
    * - we want to cover most of the interesting use cases, so we need to cover a single host but also being able to target a cluster. Most of the current Docker options today don't work on Windows, it is the same with Docker options targetting a cluster which is why we split Compose between V2 and V3. As such the vision in this area is - we should not block on things that could be applied to a significant number of use cases. We need to consider the Compose spec as a way to express a container based application model with some options for common parterns that are portable.
* Nicolas D
    *  - the vision has already been split between core & deploy, we should probably change delpoy to be for more platforms. We should open a PR against the vision to make this clearer. We are trying to create a common language for how we represent containers, when people are using compose it is ok for some platforms to not support some features of the platform. This shouldn't be limited because 'you aren't' using version 3, but it should be based on what features your platform supports.
* Till W
    * - are we looking to generalize some of the options?
* Nicolas -
    * Looking at an example of linux C groups, if we have a way to express that this attribute is here and how a device can be used by your container.
* Chris C
    * A good test would be could this feature run on multiple platforms. A good example is adding GPU, then we could schedule workloads for GPU and it could be supported on multiple platforms.
* Nicolas
    * For legacy reason, GPU was implemented as switching the runtime. But end users doesn't want to know about runtimes and just wants the container to have access to the device. These are the sorts of changes we could make.
* Eric
    * Where does CI fall with the vision?
* Nicolas
    * CI is a typical use case for Compose.
    * Could Eric open up an issue on the Compose spec to itterate on this
    * One to clarify with everyone here, V2 support
    * Work so far - listed fields that were removed between V2/V3. Already went into discussion that some of them are still valid, a few have similar commands in deploy section. There are a few use cases that we may not want to support
    * The idea is to enable a new set of tools that are not specifically tied to the version set in the Compose file, as users are just running locally or deploying to 'something' They just use Compose.
    * We need to make sure that tools read a compose file and see an attribute they don't support, that they just warn the user rather than refuse the file. This needs to be part of Compose Go so it is not too hard for people to implement
    * Add support for extension attributes - you can already add some custom extensions to your compose file, it is enabled at the top level within your services or networks. Wanted to suggest that we introduce support, as a best practice, of extensions everywhere in the Compose file. And ask that people can use vendor specific extensions, so users can experiment with the spec and make some interesting use cases.
* Chris
    * We will still need to have reasonable constraints on what is accepted into the spec as an extension
* Nicolas
    * We could perhaps limit it to needing to be implemented/supported by at least 2 major providers and be able to mock it/use it locally
    * Is the meeting long enough/is the format good?
* Till
    * Could be longer? Perhaps 1 hour?
* Chris
    * Once the spec stabilizes we can probably extend it
